Element.checkVisibility() - docs (#31322)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/element/checkvisibility/index.md

---
title: "Element: checkVisibility() method"
short-title: checkVisibility()
slug: Web/API/Element/checkVisibility
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.Element.checkVisibility
---

{{APIRef("DOM")}}

The **`checkVisibility()`** method of the {{domxref("Element")}} interface performs checks to determine whether the element is visible.

> The method returns `false` if the element doesn't have an associated box, such as those that have the CSS property [`display: none`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#none) or [`display: contents`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#contents).
> The method also returns `false` if the element is not being rendered because the element or an an ancestor element sets the property value as [`content-visibility: hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#hidden).

Reviewer: Strictly optional, but I favour bullets for these situations. Also, the wording "the CSS property [display: none](https://pr31322.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#none) or [display: contents](https://pr31322.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#contents)" (and similar in other parts of this page) is a bit weird here. `display` is the property, `none` is a value. So I think "the `display` property set to `none` or `contents`" seems more natural to me, and similarly for the others.

For example:

```suggestion
The method returns `false` in either of the following situations:
- The element doesn't have an associated box, for example because the CSS {{cssxref("display")}} property is set to [`none`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#none) or [`contents`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#contents).
- The element is not being rendered because the element or an an ancestor element sets the {{cssxref("content-visibility")}} property to [`hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#hidden).
```

Author: Thanks - agreed.

The optional parameter enables additional checks to test for other interpretations of what "visible" means.

> For example, you can further check whether an element has an opacity of `0`, if the CSS [`visibility`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility) means that the element is invisible, or if its rendering is currently being skipped because it has the property [`content-visibility: auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can further check whether an element has an opacity of `0`, if the CSS [`visibility`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility) means that the element is invisible, or if its rendering is currently being skipped because it has the {{cssxref("content-visibility")}} property set to [`auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto).
```

etc etc.

Also though am I correct in understanding that "if its rendering is currently being skipped because it has the `content-visibility` property set to `auto`" is not quite correct because skipping rendering also requires that the element is "not relevant"?

So would just "if its rendering is currently being skipped because it has the `content-visibility` property set to `auto`" be more accurate?

Author: The content is skipped if `content-visibility: auto` and the specific content is outside the viewport. 

```suggestion
For example, you can further check whether an element has an opacity of `0`, if the value of the {{cssxref("visibility")}} property means that the element is invisible, or if its rendering is currently being skipped because it has the {{cssxref("content-visibility")}} property set to [`auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto) and it is not in the visible viewport).
```

Reviewer: It's much clearer now 👍 .

## Syntax

```js-nolint
checkVisibility(options)
```

### Parameters

- `options` {{optional_inline}}

  - : An object indicating additional checks to run.
    The possible options are:

    - `contentVisibilityAuto`

>       - : `true` to check if the element has [`content-visibility: auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto) and is currently skipping its rendering.

Reviewer: Oh this implies that you need both, which makes the "because" above misleading?

Author: Yes, you need both. This is correct - I adjusted the comment above.

Author: ```suggestion
      - : `true` to check if the element's {{cssxref("content-visibility")}} property has (or inherits) the value [`auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto) and it is currently skipping its rendering.
```

        `false` by default.
    - `opacityProperty`

>       - : `true` to check if the element has an opacity of `0`.

Author: ```suggestion
      - : `true` to check if the element {{cssxref("opacity")}} property is set to (or inherits) a value of `0`.
```

        `false` by default.
    - `visibilityProperty`

>       - : `true` to check if the element is invisible due to its CSS [`visibility`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility) value.

Author: ```suggestion
      - : `true` to check if the element is invisible due to the value of its {{cssxref("visibility")}} property.
```

        `false` by default.

        > **Note:** Invisible elements include those that have [`visibility: hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility#hidden), and some element types that have [`visibility: collapse`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility#collapse).

    - `checkOpacity`

>       - : A historic alias for [`opacityProperty`](#opacityProperty).
>     - `checkVisibilityCSS`
>       - : A historic alias for [`visibilityProperty`](#visibilityProperty).

Reviewer 2: Drive-by comment: internal anchors must be lowercase.
```suggestion
      - : A historic alias for [`opacityProperty`](#opacityproperty).
    - `checkVisibilityCSS`
      - : A historic alias for [`visibilityProperty`](#visibilityproperty).
```

Author: Thanks. Must be dim - couldn't work out why this was showing a flaw.

### Return value

`false` if any of the following conditions are met, otherwise `true`:

> - the element doesn't have an associated box

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The element doesn't have an associated box.
```

- The element has [`content-visibility: hidden`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility#hidden).

> - `opacityProperty` (or `checkOpacity`) is `true` and the element has an opacity of `0`.

Author: ```suggestion
- `opacityProperty` (or `checkOpacity`) is `true` and the element {{cssxref("opacity ")}} property has (or inherits) a value of `0`.
```

> - `visibilityProperty` (or `checkVisibilityCSS`) is `true` and the element is invisible due to the CSS [`visibility`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/visibility) property.

Author: ```suggestion
- `visibilityProperty` (or `checkVisibilityCSS`) is `true` and the element is invisible due to the value of its {{cssxref("visibility")}} property.
```

> - `contentVisibilityAuto` is `true` and element rendering is being skipped due to [`content-visibility: auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `contentVisibilityAuto` is `true` and element rendering is being skipped due to [`content-visibility: auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto).
```

Author: Note that when I say "property is", set on the element or an ancestor (i.e. the computed value). This is implied right?

```suggestion
- `contentVisibilityAuto` is `true`, the {{cssxref("content-visibility")}} property is [`auto`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/content-visibility#auto), and element rendering is being skipped.
```

  // Call checkVisibility() on element using default and each of options
  const defaultVisibilityCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility();
  const opacityVisibilityCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility({
    opacityProperty: true,
  });
  const cssVisibilityCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility({
    visibilityProperty: true,
  });
  const contentVisibilityAutoCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility({
    contentVisibilityAuto: true,
  });

  // Output the results of the tests
  visibility_check.innerHTML = `<p>Result of check on element below (may be hidden):</p>
    <ul>
      <li>default: ${defaultVisibilityCheck}</li>
      <li>opacity: ${opacityVisibilityCheck}</li>
      <li>visibility: ${cssVisibilityCheck}</li>
      <li>contentVisibilityAuto: ${contentVisibilityAutoCheck}</li>
    </ul>`;
}
```

#### Result

The results are shown below.
If you change the selection the results will be applied to the test element (blue outline) and the results of the `checkVisibility()` for each setting should be displayed.
So for example, if you set the `opacity: 0` that test (only) should indicate `false`.
However if you set `display: none` then all tests should return `false.

> {{ EmbedLiveSample('Using hidden to manually manage visibility', "100%", "200" ) }}

Reviewer: The argument here is wrong (it works because EmbedLiveSample is very lax).

Author: ```suggestion
{{ EmbedLiveSample('Test checkVisibility() with varied CSS', "100%", "200" ) }}
```

> {{ EmbedLiveSample('Using hidden to manually manage visibility', "100%", "200" ) }}

Reviewer: This is a nice example. Just a suggestion, but it might be a bit easier to follow if you actually list the API call signature, instead of:

> * default: true
> * opacity: true
> * visibility: true
> * contentVisibilityAuto: true

like:

> * Result of `checkVisibility()`: true
> * Result of `checkVisibility({opacityProperty: true})`: true
> * Result of `checkVisibility({visibilityProperty: true})`: true
> * Result of `checkVisibility({contentVisibilityAuto: true})`: true

---
title: "Element: checkVisibility() method"
short-title: checkVisibility()
slug: Web/API/Element/checkVisibility
page-type: web-api-instance-method
browser-compat: api.Element.checkVisibility
---

{{APIRef("DOM")}}

The **`checkVisibility()`** method of the {{domxref("Element")}} interface checks whether the element is visible.

The method returns `false` in either of the following situations:

> - The element doesn't have an associated box, for example because the CSS {{cssxref("display")}} property is set to [`none`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#none) or [`contents`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/display#contents).

Author: This comment seems invalid

  <option value="hidden">visibility: hidden</option>
  <option value="collapse">visibility: collapse</option>
</select>
```

Next we have a `<div>` that is used to output the result of the `checkVisibility()` check when no options are passed in the parameter, and for each separate option value.
At the end we have the element that will be tested (to which we will apply the selected CSS property values).

```html
<div id="visibility_check"></div>
<div id="test_element">The element to be checked for visibility.</div>
```

#### CSS

The CSS just highlights the element to be tested.

```css
#test_element {
  border: solid;
  border-color: blue;
}
```

#### JavaScript

The code below gets each of the `<select>` elements.
The `updateCSS()` method is called on start and whenever the select elements change in order to apply the selected CSS to the target element,

```js
const displayCssSelect = document.getElementById("css_display");
const contentVisibilityCssSelect = document.getElementById(
  "css_content_visibility",
);
const displayCssOpacity = document.getElementById("css_opacity");
const displayCssVisibility = document.getElementById("css_visibility");

> const visibility_check = document.getElementById("visibility_check");

Reviewer: Sorry I missed this before but snake case is against our coding guidelines, so this ought to be `visibilityCheck`.

Author: Absolutely. Thanks.

const elementToCheck = document.getElementById("test_element");

updateCSS();

const cssSelectors = document.querySelectorAll("select");
cssSelectors.forEach((select) => {
  select.addEventListener("change", (event) => {
    updateCSS();
  });
});

function updateCSS() {
  // Apply selected CSS properties to target element
  elementToCheck.style.display = displayCssSelect.value;
  elementToCheck.style.contentVisibility = contentVisibilityCssSelect.value;
  elementToCheck.style.opacity = displayCssOpacity.value;
  elementToCheck.style.visibility = displayCssVisibility.value;

  // Call checkVisibility() on element using default and each of options
  const defaultVisibilityCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility();
  const opacityVisibilityCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility({
    opacityProperty: true,
  });
  const cssVisibilityCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility({
    visibilityProperty: true,
  });
  const contentVisibilityAutoCheck = elementToCheck.checkVisibility({
    contentVisibilityAuto: true,
  });

  // Output the results of the tests

>   visibility_check.innerHTML = `<p>Checks on element below (may be hidden):</p>

Reviewer: I also missed this before and I can see why you did it but I would not have `innerHTML` here. I think it is too often an unsafe API for us to include it in our examples. See also https://github.com/mdn/content/issues/13496.

In situations like this I just use a `<pre>` block and set text content, it's not as pretty but shorter and safer.

But like I say I can see why you did it so won't insist on it, just registering my dissatisfaction with it :).

Author: Thanks @wbamberg 

I've modified this to a `<pre>` too. It is shorter and safer. I want to argue that we should work to show developers the "right way" to safely set/sanitize content rather than adjust our examples to always do the safe way, but that's not the most pragmatic approach. Too easy to get wrong, and not really necessary when the point of the example isn't demonstrating "UI stuff".

I wonder if perhaps it is time to update our sections on code example, and in particular this one for live examples: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples#grouping_code_blocks_by_heading

We could have a live example which uses innerText and a `<pre>` block, along with a log function or similar, explain why, and hopefully authors will copy this rather than some other example.

Author: PS Thanks for taking the time to go through this properly. I think I've already mentally checked out.

Reviewer: > Thanks @wbamberg
> 
> I've modified this to a `\<pre\>` too. It is shorter and safer. I want to argue that we should work to show developers the "right way" to safely set/sanitize content rather than adjust our examples to always do the safe way, but that's not the most pragmatic approach. Too easy to get wrong, and not really necessary when the point of the example isn't demonstrating "UI stuff".

That's an interesting suggestion, but I do think it's best for examples to minimise nonessential complexity. People are here to learn about `checkVisibility()` and we should concentrate on that. IMO.

> I wonder if perhaps it is time to update our sections on code example, and in particular this one for live examples: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Live_samples#grouping_code_blocks_by_heading
> 
> We could have a live example which uses innerText and a `\<pre\>` block, along with a log function or similar, explain why, and hopefully authors will copy this rather than some other example.

It's a good idea. Better would be for Yari to support a console for live samples, (see https://github.com/orgs/mdn/discussions/215) but, you know...

Author: Thanks for the review.

Yeah, having infrastructure support might be cool. Except that the infrastructure we currently have for these makes them practically un-debuggable, and I'm scared adding "more" would break this "more".
So a docs fix: https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/31596
